OBSDOCS-736-4.14 - Logging Installation Fix - cee.next (#77407)
openshift/openshift-docs: observability/logging/cluster-logging-deploying.adoc

====

You deploy {logging} by installing the {loki-op} or {es-op} to manage your log store, followed by the {clo} to manage the components of logging. You can use either the {product-title} web console or the {product-title} CLI to install or configure {logging}.

include::snippets/logging-elastic-dep-snip.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[TIP]
====
You can alternatively apply all example objects.
====

include::modules/logging-es-deploy-console.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/logging-es-deploy-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

--
include::snippets/logging-retention-period-snip.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
--

include::modules/logging-loki-cli-install.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/logging-loki-gui-install.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

ifdef::openshift-origin[]
[id="prerequisites_cluster-logging-deploying"]
== Prerequisites
* Ensure that you have downloaded the {cluster-manager-url-pull} as shown in _Obtaining the installation program_ in the installation documentation for your platform.
+
If you have the pull secret, add the `redhat-operators` catalog to the OperatorHub custom resource (CR) as shown in _Configuring {product-title} to use Red{nbsp}Hat Operators_.

> endif::[]

Reviewer: I don't have a preview for OKD, but wouldn't this resolve as an assembly level prereqs section that comes _after_ all the modules and right before the additional resources section? If you'd need further SME review to move this then I guess you can leave it, but I'm guessing you can probably just move it to before the modules?

toc::[]

You deploy {logging} by installing the {loki-op} or {es-op} to manage your log store, followed by the {clo} to manage the components of logging. You can use either the {product-title} web console or the {product-title} CLI to install or configure {logging}.

[TIP]
====

> The {clo} must be installed *after* the log store Operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must install the {clo} *after* the log store Operator.
```

====

> == With the Elasticsearch log store

Reviewer 2: You need an [id=] with this anchor.

include::snippets/logging-elastic-dep-snip.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/logging-es-deploy-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/logging-es-deploy-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

> == With the Loki log store

Reviewer 2: id= needed here.

.Prerequisites

> include::snippets/logging-retention-period-snip.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Reviewer 2: ![image](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/77501157/1f2a7e90-f716-4c54-a450-21591be9bc65)

Reviewer 2: I think that the rendering of the .Prerequisites is getting thrown off by the snippet. Maybe put the .Prerequisites after the snippet inclusion?

> .Prerequisites
> 
> include::snippets/logging-retention-period-snip.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
include::snippets/logging-retention-period-snip.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Prerequisites
```

* Determine Loki xref:../logging/log_storage/installing-log-storage.html#loki-deployment-sizing_installing-log-storage[deployment size].

* Configure xref:../logging/log_storage/installing-log-storage.adoc#logging-loki-storage_installing-log-storage[S3 compatible object storage].

* Create a secret using the configuration provided for the object storage provider:

> 

Reviewer 2: I like the use of collapsible inclusions, and I wonder if you can add a "+" here and before the others to nudge them over a little to the right so they're more underneath this bullet item?

== With the Elasticsearch log store

include::snippets/logging-elastic-dep-snip.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/logging-es-deploy-console.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/logging-es-deploy-cli.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="with-the-loki-log-store_{context}"]
== With the Loki log store

include::snippets/logging-retention-period-snip.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Prerequisites

* Determine Loki xref:../logging/log_storage/installing-log-storage.html#loki-deployment-sizing_installing-log-storage[deployment size].

* Configure xref:../logging/log_storage/installing-log-storage.adoc#logging-loki-storage_installing-log-storage[S3 compatible object storage].

* Create a secret using the configuration provided for the object storage provider:
+
.AWS
[%collapsible]
====
include::modules/logging-loki-storage-aws.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
====
+
.Azure
[%collapsible]
====
include::modules/logging-loki-storage-azure.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
====
+
.GCP
[%collapsible]
====
include::modules/logging-loki-storage-gcp.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
====
+
.Minio
[%collapsible]
====
include::modules/logging-loki-storage-minio.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
====
+
.OpenShift Data Foundation

> [%collapsible]

Reviewer 2: So all these collapsible includes are rendering the = in the heading: 
![image](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/77501157/f11939bf-83c7-46a0-b272-9822b89ee749)

As much as I think this is a cool idea to present all these options, I'm not sure if its the most user-friendly experience, especially too because all the options are no long visible in the left nav. It may need to be more like you've got here: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/observability/logging/log_storage/installing-log-storage.html#logging-loki-storage_installing-log-storage

Reviewer 2: Or maybe add the link in the prerequsities instead? Like this:
* Create a secret using the configuration provided for the [object storage provider](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/observability/logging/log_storage/installing-log-storage.html#logging-loki-storage_installing-log-storage)
